The following high-level pseudocode was created as a reader’s guide for non-programmers to understand the functionalities of CitPres DataCollector app. Readers with a stronger technical background will find more nuanced information on the functionalities of the routine directly in the heavily-commented source code.

1) The app opens to a welcome screen that asks the user for a given, predetermined:
	a) user unique ID
	b) session/location unique ID

2) After these metadata are collected, the user is taken to a simple prompt where she can decide whether to take in-app video training or skip:
	a) where the user may take the video training.
	b) where the user may skip and continue with photo taking.

3) The app initiates the target device for cameras to use as the main camera:
	a) for phones, the rear camera is chosen.
	b) for computers, the first webcam is chosen.

3) A simple text and image are slowly flashed so that the user can see the camera video feed and is reminded to tap to take a picture.

5) After the screen is tapped, the user is taken to a page where she can review the image taken:
	a) where the user may return and retake the picture.
b) where the user may accept the given picture as the artifact and continue to input metadata.
	c) the location and time are taken and recorded.

6) Upon confirmation, the user is prompted with a series of entries that provide user-entered metadata for the chosen artifact:
	a) where the user may quit out of this artifact and retake a picture.
	b) where the user may accept the given metadata.

7) Once the user enters metadata and moves to review, she is presented with a page that displays all given metadata for review:
	a) where the user may go back and edit the metadata previously entered.
	b) submit and save the given artifact.

8) When submitting the artifact, the image and all metadata are compressed into a json file where:
	a) the image is compressed and encrypted into a text format for later transfer.
	b) saved to a location that can be locally retrieved from the target device.
	c) a copy of the artifact’s picture is also copied into the phone’s default image gallery.

9) After saving the json, the user is given confirmation that the file was saved, and:
	a) the user may restart from the beginning or,
	b) quit out of the application entirely.
